content/2025-08-25.mdx, before:

---
title: "Building My New Portfolio: A Journey of Features and Fixes"
publishedAt: "2025-08-25"
summary: "A look back at the process of customizing my personal portfolio, detailing the new features I built and the interesting bugs I squashed along the way."
tags:
  - "React"
  - "Next.js"
  - "TypeScript"
  - "Framer Motion"
  - "Vercel"
  - "Debugging"
---

This is the 2nd post on my new blog. For this one, I wanted to document the journey of building the very site you're reading this on. It started as a fork of a great template and quickly evolved into a personalized showcase of my journey into Cloud and DevOps.

Here’s a summary of the custom features I built and some of the valuable lessons I learned from the bugs I encountered and solved.

### New Features Added

My goal was to create a site that was not just a static resume, but an interactive and engaging experience. Here are the key features I added:

* **Animated Career Path:** I replaced the static intro text with a dynamic component built with Framer Motion that visually animates my career transition from Chemist to Sales and finally to Cloud & DevOps. It includes interactive hover effects to reveal more details about each stage.
* **Interactive Tech Stack:** To better showcase my technical skills, I built a two-state component. It starts as an infinitely scrolling marquee of technology logos and, with a click, transforms into a detailed, categorized grid.
* **Timeline Reading List:** Instead of a simple list, I created a custom component to display my recommended books in a clean, vertical timeline format, inspired by elegant publication layouts.
* **Upgraded Blog Functionality:** The blog itself was enhanced with client-side search and category filtering to make it easier to navigate as I add more content. I also added a "Back to Top" button for better usability on longer pages.
* **Image Slideshows:** For projects with multiple visuals, I implemented an automatic image slideshow within the project cards, using Framer Motion for smooth cross-fade transitions.

### Challenges Faced & Lessons Learned

Every development process has its hurdles. Here are a few of the most interesting bugs I encountered and how I fixed them:

#### 1. The Server vs. Client Conundrum (`Module not found: Can't resolve 'fs'`)

After adding interactive filters to the blog, the site failed to build on Vercel. The error was that the `fs` module, a Node.js library for file system access, could not be found.

* **The Problem:** My blog page was a Client Component (`"use client";`), which runs in the browser. The `fs` module can only run on the server.
* **The Solution:** I refactored the blog into two parts: a **Server Component** (`page.tsx`) that fetches all the post data from the file system at build time, and a **Client Component** (`blog-client.tsx`) that receives that data as a prop and handles all the interactive searching and filtering in the browser. This correctly separated the server-side and client-side logic.

#### 2. The Case of the Invisible Images

My project images were not showing up, especially in dark mode. The browser's developer tools showed no "404 Not Found" errors, which meant the images were loading but were not visible.

* **The Problem:** This was a classic CSS stacking context issue. The card's dark background was being rendered on a higher "layer" than the image itself.
* **The Solution:** I updated my main CSS file (`globals.css`) to add a `z-index` to the container holding the image. This explicitly lifted the image layer above the card's background layer, making it visible in all themes.

#### 3. The "Refused to Connect" Mystery

Clicking on external links, like my GitHub or LinkedIn profiles, would lead to a blank page with a "refused to connect" error.

* **The Problem:** The site was using the Next.js `<Link>` component for all links. This component is designed for fast, internal, client-side navigation. For security reasons, external sites like GitHub refuse to be loaded inside another website's navigation context.
* **The Solution:** I updated the components that render links (`navbar.tsx` and `resume-card.tsx`) to be smarter. They now check if a link is internal (starts with `/`) or external (starts with `http`). For external links, they now render a standard `<a>` tag with `target="_blank"`, telling the browser to open the link in a new tab, which resolved the issue.

---

This process of building and debugging was a fantastic learning experience that went far beyond the initial template. I hope this overview of the journey was insightful!

---

[← Back to Blog](/blog)

Commit message:

Add date filter function, blog post updated

content/2025-08-25.mdx, after:

---
title: "Update: New Blog Function and Fixed bugs"
publishedAt: "2025-08-25"
summary: "A look back at the process of customizing my personal portfolio, detailing the new features I built and the interesting bugs I squashed along the way."
tags:
  - "React"
  - "Next.js"
  - "TypeScript"
  - "Update"
  - "Vercel"
  - "Debugging"
---

For this one, I wanted to document the journey of building the very site you're reading this on. It started as a fork of a great template and quickly evolved into a personalized showcase of my journey into Cloud and DevOps.

Here’s a summary of the custom features I built and some of the valuable lessons I learned from the bugs I encountered and solved.

### New Features Added

My goal was to create a site that was not just a static resume, but an interactive and engaging experience. Here are the key features I added:

* **Animated Career Path:** I replaced the static intro text with a dynamic component built with Framer Motion that visually animates my career transition from Chemist to Sales and finally to Cloud & DevOps. It includes interactive hover effects to reveal more details about each stage.
* **Interactive Tech Stack:** To better showcase my technical skills, I built a two-state component. It starts as an infinitely scrolling marquee of technology logos and, with a click, transforms into a detailed, categorized grid.
* **Timeline Reading List:** Instead of a simple list, I created a custom component to display my recommended books in a clean, vertical timeline format, inspired by elegant publication layouts.
* **Upgraded Blog Functionality:** The blog itself was enhanced with client-side search and category filtering to make it easier to navigate as I add more content. I also added a "Back to Top" button for better usability on longer pages.
* **Image Slideshows:** For projects with multiple visuals, I implemented an automatic image slideshow within the project cards, using Framer Motion for smooth cross-fade transitions.

### Challenges Faced & Lessons Learned

Every development process has its hurdles. Here are a few of the most interesting bugs I encountered and how I fixed them:

#### 1. The Server vs. Client Conundrum (`Module not found: Can't resolve 'fs'`)

After adding interactive filters to the blog, the site failed to build on Vercel. The error was that the `fs` module, a Node.js library for file system access, could not be found.

* **The Problem:** My blog page was a Client Component (`"use client";`), which runs in the browser. The `fs` module can only run on the server.
* **The Solution:** I refactored the blog into two parts: a **Server Component** (`page.tsx`) that fetches all the post data from the file system at build time, and a **Client Component** (`blog-client.tsx`) that receives that data as a prop and handles all the interactive searching and filtering in the browser. This correctly separated the server-side and client-side logic.

#### 2. The Case of the Invisible Images

My project images were not showing up, especially in dark mode. The browser's developer tools showed no "404 Not Found" errors, which meant the images were loading but were not visible.

* **The Problem:** This was a classic CSS stacking context issue. The card's dark background was being rendered on a higher "layer" than the image itself.
* **The Solution:** I updated my main CSS file (`globals.css`) to add a `z-index` to the container holding the image. This explicitly lifted the image layer above the card's background layer, making it visible in all themes.

#### 3. The "Refused to Connect" Mystery

Clicking on external links, like my GitHub or LinkedIn profiles, would lead to a blank page with a "refused to connect" error.

* **The Problem:** The site was using the Next.js `<Link>` component for all links. This component is designed for fast, internal, client-side navigation. For security reasons, external sites like GitHub refuse to be loaded inside another website's navigation context.
* **The Solution:** I updated the components that render links (`navbar.tsx` and `resume-card.tsx`) to be smarter. They now check if a link is internal (starts with `/`) or external (starts with `http`). For external links, they now render a standard `<a>` tag with `target="_blank"`, telling the browser to open the link in a new tab, which resolved the issue.

---

This process of building and debugging was a fantastic learning experience that went far beyond the initial template. I hope this overview of the journey was insightful!

---

[← Back to Blog](/blog)
